hi this is alia and welcome back to
cookingwithalia to show the beauty
flavors of morocco today we're going to
make an amazingly delicious dish of
salmon and sweet potatoes Moroccan style
first we're going to use a Asian which
is a Moroccan clay pot used for slow
cooking second we're going to use an
amazing spice blend called that as we
haven't lost ahead literally means the
head of the shop and it's very famous in
Morocco every spice shop in Morocco
usually have their own blend and
sometimes it has more than 30 spices in
it and that's it this dish is so simple
and delicious and out of this world if
you need the ingredients and the written
recipe there below the video in the
About section this is a dish that you
will remember let's start first we are
going to prepare the marinade in a large
bowl add freshly squeezed lemon juice
olive oil honey and the Russell heads a
staple Moroccan spice blend combined
together now add a large pinch of
saffron threads that you crush between
your fingers salt and pepper add a
little bit of water and mix well our
marinade is ready look at these
beautiful Salman pieces place the
fillets in the marinade cover the bowl
with a plastic wrap and marinate the
salmon in the fridge for at least 1 hour
once you are ready to cook the salmon
let's prepare the rest of the
ingredients peel cut and thinly slice
the onion peel the sweet potatoes and
thinly slice them as well I am using a
tagine the famous Moroccan clay pot used
for slow cooking if you don't have one
no worries you can use a regular cooking
pot drizzle some olive oil in the bottom
part of the tagine add the onion slices
a pinch of salt and a few branches of
fresh cilantro place the tagine on low
heat cover and let cook for
five minutes or until the onion slices
start sweating a bit notice that I'm
using a plain clay Taji if yours is
decorated and colorful then it's not for
cooking just for presentation once the
onion slices start sweating it's time to
add the sweet potatoes remove the salmon
pieces from the marinade and reserve dip
the sweet potato slices into the
marinade before placing them in the
tagine then pour the marinade over the
potatoes and onion cover the tagine and
continue cooking for around thirty
minutes on low heat until the potatoes
start becoming soft now add the salmon
pieces on top of the potato slices and
as a final touch
add the raisins around cover your tagine
and let cook for around 45 minutes to 1
hour on low heat cooking in a tagine is
all about slow cooking and don't worry
the Salman will not be overcooked it
will be just perfect and that's the
magic of a tagine pot however remember
it has to cook on low heat otherwise you
will burn the bottom layer of the
ingredients from time to time check on
the ingredients tilt the tagine and pour
some of the sauce on top of the salmon
and potatoes but do not move the
ingredients keep them as they are and
that's it don't move anything don't add
anything just wait wait wait until the
potatoes are cooked and become soft then
serve hot
look at this deliciously cooked to
perfection salmon with sweet potatoes
raisins in a honey spice
all you need is some crusty bread even a
pity